## Tools Used
For creating the GUI of the chatting application, “Windows Form App (.NET Framework)” was used. For creating the server and superuser, “Console App (.NET Framework)” was used. For creating the web service, “ASP.NET Web Application (.NET Framework)” was used. 

## Server and Client Communication
The server is always listening to whenever a new client tries to connect to the server. The employee or the client application always listens to data from the server through a separate thread. In the server, a new thread is created for each client connected to the server. With that, many employees or clients can connect to the server. The data is sent as JSON format which, respectively, are serialized then deserialized when sent and received. To identify which request is asking for what, a “type” field is set in the JSON data to allow server and client to handle the information exchanged between them. The client sends a request to server asking for authorization and server uses the web service method “SelectEmployee” to select employee from “Employee” table and check if client’s credentials match. After a successful login, a chat menu is shown to the client with a list of active clients on the left panel and messages on the right panel. If login is unsuccessful, the client must register themselves as a new employee. When a new employee signs up, the server uses a web service method “SelectEmployee2” to select employee from “Employee” table and server checks whether the employee exists or not and if not, then the server will call the web service method “AddEmployee” to add the new client to the “Employee” table then client will be returned to the sign in page. When a client is on the chatting page, the client will request from the server for the current active clients and server will show the active clients on the left side of the page. If the client wants to privately chat with another client, the client can click on one of the active clients on the left side of the page. If there exist old messages between both clients, then client will request from the server the old messages between the clients. The server uses web service method “OldMessages” which retrieves the messages from the “Chatting” table then server sends them to the client. With the selected client, the current client can privately send normal or encrypted messages to the other client by clicking on the “encrypted” checkbox and “send” button. When client clicks on the “send” button, the client is requesting server to save the message in the “Chatting” table, so, the server uses the web service method “AddToChatting” which adds the normal or encrypted message to the “Chatting” table. The server then sends the message to the other client. If current client is sending an encrypted message, then the server will send the encrypted message to the other client and the other client must decrypt the message on their side and show the decrypted message in the chatting box. If client wants to send normal or encrypted broadcast message to all active clients, then client will click on the “encrypt” check box and “Broadcast” button. Like when sending a private message, the server must save the normal or encrypted broadcast message in the “Chatting” table and clients must decrypt the message when receiving the broadcasted message. Also, whenever a client signs in successfully, the server calls a web service method “AddToLogIn” to add the sign in date and time of client to “LoginLog” table and whenever a client signs out, the server calls a web service method “AddToLogoutLogs” to add the log out date and time of client to “LogoutLog” table. 

## Client 
The client handles the data from the server using a mapping strategy. The client is constantly listening for data through a thread and a dictionary is used to store the type of the data and a corresponding callback function which is called when a data of that certain type is received. 


## Super User (Privileged Usage)
The superuser is a console app that is prompting for input from admin. The admin will request to see certain tables on the database. The superuser uses the web service methods “AllEmployees”, “AllLoginLogs”, “AllLogoutLogs” and “AllChatting” to get the rows from the tables on the database and to display them on the console app.  

